♪ [music] ♪
Our home page and our stores page is
starting to get really, really long.
I think we have something about 15, 16
different stores on the home page. And if
we were to continually add that up to
1,000 or 2,000 stores then that would take
way too long to actually load the page
because each of these stores has an image
associated with it. So we need to
introduce pagination which allows us to
skip from page to page to page to page.
Great. So what we essentially need to do
is to go into our store controller and we
need to modify our get stores function to
not just find all of them, but to find a
specific number of stores and we need to
skip it. So let's say we're showing three
or four per page. If I'm showing four per
page, page one is one through four then on
page two I need to skip four and start at
five, six, seven, eight,
you get the point, right?
So we first want to create a new route
because the way that the urls are
going to work we are going to go
/stores/page/two, /three, /four,
those are going to be the pages that we're
on. So let's open up our index.js and
let's look for our...here we go. We've got
store, let's just duplicate and modify it
how we want it. Let's go back to our get
stores function here and I am going to put
this find on its own line and take off the
semicolon because there's a lot that we're
going to be going through here.
So first thing that we need is we need a
variable for what page we are on, so we'll
say const page is equal to and ideally we
get that from the url request.params.page
but if we're on the home page like we are
clicking on stores right here or we are on
the home page, there is no store...there
is no page number and in that case we just
show them one so we say or one.
Then we need a limit, how many do you want
to show per page so we'll say const limit
and let's set it to four, four per page.
Now we need to make our skip.
So we're going to make a const skip equals
and what skip is going to be is if we're
on page two, we want to skip four
because we are showing five,
six, seven, eight. If we're on page one,
our skip is going to be zero.
So in order for us to do that, we take the
page which is we're on page one,
and we multiply that by the limit that is
four, and that's going to give us page
times limit, that's going to give
us four minus the actual limit,
and let's just think about that a second.
So page one, let's do some math here,
we're on page one, we're going to multiply
that by four, and then we're going to
subtract four so that will give us a skip
of zero. And then if we're on page two
times four, that's going to give us eight
minus four, we want to skip four.
So that's in pretty good shape so far.
Then we can go down to our find here and
we're going to implement a skip which is
our skip variable and we are going to
limit it to the number that we have. So
let's try it out. We go to our stores.
We go to page two and we're seeing
The Burnt Tongue, Bar Izakaya,
Mulberry Coffee, Olive Oil, page one,
we see Charred, page three,
we see that, and if we just go to the
home page, we see Charred, our four.
So we know our pagination is actually
working. Now we need to make some sort of
interface to actually handle showing the
next and the previous values.
So we're going to make ourselves another
mixin called pagination so we'll go to
views, mixin, we'll make a...
...mixin pagination.
It's going to take in the
current page, the number of pages, and the
count, two of these things which we do not
have just yet. Then we'll have a
pagination div. We'll have a
"pagination__previous" and we'll
say, "if page is greater than one,"
so if we're not on page one because
otherwise we would need to be able to...we
wouldn't want to say previous on page one,
"then we do 'a ref = stores/page/'" and
we want to take the current page and
remove it, bring it down by one,
and we'll say previous then in between
we're going to have some text,
so pagination text. We'll put a paragraph
tag and we'll say "page of" how many pages
are there, we're going to have to figure
that in a second, we'll give it a dash out
of how many total results, count total
results. Then that should be indented and
we'll have a pagination next and we'll say
"if the page is less than the number of
pages," so if we're not on the last one,
then we give ourselves a ref to the
next one. And then reason why we need to
do that because it will think that this
page is an actual string and a string plus
a number will give you 11,
string of 1 plus 1 will give you 11.
And we'll say next.
There's a couple of things we need here.
We need to be able to...we know what page
we're on. We do not know how many pages
there are in total and we do not know how
many values there are in total. So we have
to go back to our store controller here
and get a couple more of those actual
values. So our first question is if we're
now limiting the number that we find, how
do we possibly know how many items are
actually in the database? Well, what we
can do is rather than query the entire
database for every single store, we can
actually use something in MongoDB called
count and that will not return us all the
documents, it'll just tell us how many
there are and that's going
to be really nice and quick.
So rather than awaiting our store data,
we're going to be doing two queries and
we're going to use promise.all to wait on
both of them. We've done this already once
before but let's do it once more. So we'll
go in here "const stores = await."
We will rename this to storesPromise and
we will take the await off. Then we'll go
down here and we'll say const count
promise is equal to Store.count and what
that will do is it will return a promise
of when it comes back from counting them
all, it'll give us the actual data.
Then we're not awaiting either of these.
We can await both of them at the same time
so stores count is equal to await and we
say promise.all, remember we can pass
promise.all an array of promises,
stores promise and count promise and then
that way we will fire off both of these
queries at the same time but wait for both
of them to come back because likely this
one will take a little bit longer than
this one. So we have our stores.
We have our count. Now what we can do is
let's just actually double check that we
have our stores coming back and maybe we
can put the count in here in the title
just to see if we have how many we have.
Here we go, 16, so we do have that count
variable coming back no problem.
Now we can figure out how many pages there
will be so const pages is equal to and we
need to take the upper limit of the number
of stores divided by how many are on per
page. So if we have the count, 16 stores,
and we have 4 per page, that is going to
give us which is our limit. So 16 divided
by 4, that's going to give us a clean 4
pages, but what if we had 17 stores? What
will we get? We would get like four and a
bit pages. So we will say math.ceil,
ceiling not like the actual animal,
and math.ceil will give us the upper bound
so if we have 17, we're going to need 5
pages because that last one is going to be
on the last page that we have there.
So that's what we have here so far.
We can now take these variables,
the count variable and the pages variable
as well as the page variable and we can
pass that all along to our actual
templates. We have stores, we have page,
we have pages, and we have our count. Now
let's go back to our pagination here and
we've already used these values in here.
Look at these two. These two need to have
a hash beside them. We need to now bring
that into our stores.pug file so we'll
include the mixin and then we'll use it
down below our stores and we'll pass it.
What is it expecting? Page, pages, and
count, page, pages, and count.
So that was a lot. Let's see if it works.
So we've got page 1 of 4,
16 total results, and it gives us a next.
I click on that, uh-oh,
not found. Oh, it's because our links
page, not pages, let's give that a refresh
now, page one of four, total results,
there we go, two of four,
three of four, get to the last one, we
don't have it, why? Because we have these
if statements that make sure if we should
show them or not, same thing if we're on
our first page, we do not see a previous
showing up because we don't need it.
One thing is we do want to guard against
possible data changing.
So maybe somebody bookmarks that they're
on page 20, and then all of a sudden,
it doesn't work. It says page 20 of 4,
16 total results, and we don't get
anything. So what we want to do in that
case is go back to our store controller
here and right before we render out, we'll
say if there is no stores.length,
if there are no stores that have come back
and there is a skip value, then we want to
redirect them to the last page of
pagination. So we'll say request.flash
we'll use info here because it's not
really a success. We'll say,
hey, you asked for page and we'll tell
them what page they asked for, but that
doesn't exist, so I put you on page...and
then we'll tell them pages,
that's the last one. So if they ask for 20
and we only have 4, we're going to say,
hey, you asked for 20 but I only put you
on page 4 because that's as far as we
can possibly go, and then we'll redirect
them to that actual page. And then finally
make sure you return from this because
we're done here. We're not actually going
to render. We're just going to redirect
them to this page which this get stores
will run again.
So give that a save and now when you
refresh a page that shouldn't exist. It
says, "Hey, you asked for page 20 but that
doesn't exist so I put you on page 4."
And then it redirected us to page four
which is the absolute last version that we
have. Let's try it one more.
Let's log in and try to do it. Now, we
deleted all of our login data so you have
to go to readme.md to find some of the
actual logins that do exist.
So let me log in as Debby Downer.
I'm going to add a new value,
going to great store,
love this place, cool.
So I added this new one, Great Store, but
if I go back to our store page,
you'll see that we now have 5 pages
with 17 total results. I don't see it
here. If we go through and look for it
here it is because we're not actually
sorting our stores in any meaningful way.
So we can actually do that real quick if
we go back to our limit and take off a
semicolon and we can sort them by their
property called created, why? Because
there's a field on each of our stores
called created and we'll make that
descending. So now when I refresh my page
one, Great Store is first, why? Because
that's the latest store that I have
created whereas the last page is going to
have the oldest stores on it.
Awesome. Let's deploy this sucker.
♪ [music] ♪